A program to keep you company

I began programming professionally in 2005, creating chat bots. You may have interacted with a chat bot before. These kind of programs talk like people, but usually not very well. Because my interests include both technology and the written word, I found this work very rewarding and interesting. However, I could see the limitations of current chat bots, and I wanted to make a chat bot that could learn and improve, using the basic tools of natural language processing I had available at the time.

After a sleepless night, I came up with an algorithm. It seemed almost too simple, but I thought it could work. The main part of the algorithm went like this:

1. First, take an input. Maybe a question. We'll call it Q1.
2. If we've heard Q1 before, pick an answer to Q1 from the available answers.
3. If we have not heard Q1 before, repeat it.
4. If we hear an answer (we'll call it A1), store Q1, and store A1 as its answer.

I called it Echo, though I think someone has since taken that name. A simple interaction might look like this:

```
Hi
> Hi
How are you?
> How are you?
Awesome
> Awesome
Hi
> How are you?
```

By echoing back the question and storing the response, the bot mimics how a baby learns. But I wanted the bot to learn more than single question-response pairs. I wanted to teach it entire sequences of interactions. So I augmented the algorithm to store entire conversations in a tree structure. The bot could still search its entire history for an answer, but it would now attempt to repeat threads of conversations if the other party played along. 






